[Elixir] New concept exercise: `processes` (#1654)
exercism/v3: languages/elixir/exercises/concept/processes/.docs/after.md

```elixir
def loop(state) do
  receive do
    :increment_by_one ->
      loop(state + 1)

    {:report_state, sender_pid} ->
      send(sender_pid, state)
      loop(state)

    :stop ->
      nil

    _ ->
      loop(state)
  end
end
```

In practice, this approach is rarely used directly. Elixir offers concurrency abstractions, such as the [`Agent` module][agent] or a [_`GenServer` behaviour`_][genserver], that both build on top of the receive loop. However, it is crucial to understand those basics to be able to efficiently use the abstractions.

## PIDs

- PIDs are their own datatype.
  - You can check if a variable is a PID with [`is_pid/1`][kernel-is-pid]
- Each process has its own unique PID.
- You can get the current process' PID with `self()`.
- PIDs function as _mailbox addresses_ - if you have a process' PID, you can send a message to that process.
- PIDs are usually created indirectly, as a return value of functions that create new processes, like `spawn`.
  - PIDs should not be created directly by the programmer. If it were required, Erlang has a [`list_to_pid/1`][erlang-list-to-pid] function.
    ```elixir

>     :erlang.list_to_pid('<0.10.0>')

Author: @iHiD Is it allowed to have a snippet in `after.md` that depends on a concept that wasn't taught yet? Elixir doesn't have its own way (1) to create a PID directly, you need to do it using an Erlang's function, but calling Erlang functions from Elixir wasn't covered yet. If it's not allowed, I would just remove this point about PIDs.

(1) that's almost true, there is a helper for iex, but iex is another forbidden topic

Reviewer: Yeah - I think this is totally fine :) Maybe say "You will learn more about this in the XYZ exercise" if you like.

Reviewer 2: If you keep things minimal and just note that there _is_ a method/function to do X without explain X, I agree that it could work.

In Elixir, all code runs inside processes. Elixir processes:

- Should not be confused with system processes.
- Are lightweight.
  - It is normal to have an Elixir app that runs hundreds of processes.
- Have specific use cases.
  - Processes can:
    - [Keep global state][getting-started-processes-state].
    - [Contain failure][getting-started-processes-links].
    - Allow for concurrent and asynchronous code.

>   - It is also normal to have an Elixir app that doesn't explicitly create new processes, especially if it's a library.

Reviewer 3: Not sure these need to be nested so deep, they could be first-level items and still be very helpful

Author: Is this better? [`6ced16d` (#1654)](https://github.com/exercism/v3/pull/1654/commits/6ced16d8830aa3047d3b025374bcc2b067c18b25)

Reviewer 3: That's awesome!

## Creating processes

By default, a function will execute in the same process from which it was called. When you need to explicitly run a certain function in a new process, use `spawn`:

- [`spawn/1`][kernel-spawn-1] accepts a function that it will execute directly.

  ```elixir
  spawn(fn -> 2 + 2 end)
  # => #PID<0.125.0>
  ```

- [`spawn/3`][kernel-spawn-3] accepts a function that it will execute by the module name, the function name (as atom), and a list of arguments to pass to that function.

  ```elixir
  spawn(String, :split, ["hello there", " "])
  # => #PID<0.113.0>
  ```

>   - This data triplet is often called _MFA_ - _Module, Function, Arguments_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - This data triplet is often called an _MFA_ — _Module, Function, Arguments_.
```

> - A process exists as soon as its function finished executing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A process exits as soon as its function finished executing.
```

>   - You can check if a process is still _alive_ (executing) with [Process.alive?/1][process-alive]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can check if a process is still _alive_ (executing) with [Process.alive?/1][process-alive]:
```

>     ```elixir
>     pid = spawn(fn -> 2 + 2 end)
>     Process.alive?(pid)
>     # => false
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
  ```elixir
  pid = spawn(fn -> 2 + 2 end)
  Process.alive?(pid)
  # => false
  ```
````

## Messages

> Processes do not directly share information with one another. The only way to get data in and out of a running process is by _sending messages_. This type of concurrency is called the [Actor model][wiki-actor-model].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Processes do not directly share information with one another. Processes _send messages_ to share data. This concurrency pattern is called the [Actor model][wiki-actor-model].
```
Wording changed to speak more actively.

> - You can send messages to a process using [send/2][kernel-send].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Send messages to a process using [send/2][kernel-send].
```

  ```elixir
  send(pid, :hello)
  ```

>   - The message ends up in the recipient's _mailbox_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The message ends up in the recipient's _mailbox_ in the order that they are sent.
```

Reviewer 3: In addition to my suggestion, should we mention that if multiple processes are sending messages to a process, there is no guarantee about which order the messages are interleaved?

  - `send` does not check if the message was received nor if the recipient is still alive.

- A message can be of any type.
- You can receive a message sent to the current process using [`receive/1`][kernel-receive].

  ```elixir
  receive do
    {:ping, sender_pid} -> send(sender_pid, :pong)
    :do_nothing -> nil
  end
  ```

  - You need to pattern match on messages.
  - `receive` waits until one message matching any given pattern is in the processes mailbox.

    - By default, it waits indefinitely, but can be given a timeout using an `after` block.

      ```elixir
      receive do
        {:ping, sender_pid} -> send(sender_pid, :pong)
      after
        5000 ->
          {:error, "No message in 5 seconds"}
      end

>       ```

Reviewer 3: You could combine these examples and put all the descriptions above

  - Read messages are removed from the process' mailbox. Unread messages will stay there indefinitely.
    - Always write a catch-all `_` clause in `receive/1` to avoid running of out memory due to piled up unread messages.

## Receive loop

If you want to receive more than one message, you need to call `receive/1` recursively. It is a common pattern to implement a recursive function, for example named `loop`, that calls `receive/1`, does something with the message, and then calls itself to wait for more messages. If you need to carry some state from one `receive/1` call to another, you can do it by passing an argument to that `loop` function.

```elixir
def loop(state) do
  receive do
    :increment_by_one ->
      loop(state + 1)

    {:report_state, sender_pid} ->
      send(sender_pid, state)
      loop(state)

    :stop ->
      nil

    _ ->
      loop(state)
  end
end
```

> In practice, this approach is rarely used directly. As you will learn later, Elixir offers concurrency abstractions, such as the [`Agent` module][agent] or a [_`GenServer` behaviour`_][genserver], that both build on top of the receive loop. However, it is crucial to understand those basics to be able to efficiently use the abstractions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In practice, this approach is rarely used directly. Elixir offers concurrency abstractions, such as the [`Agent` module][agent] or a [_`GenServer` behaviour`_][genserver], that both build on top of the receive loop. However, it is crucial to understand those basics to be able to efficiently use the abstractions.
```

## PIDs

- PIDs are their own datatype.
  - You can check if a variable is a PID with [`is_pid/1`][kernel-is-pid]
- Each process has its own unique PID.
- You can get the current process' PID with `self()`.
- PIDs function as _mailbox addresses_ - if you have a process' PID, you can send a message to that process.
- PIDs are usually created indirectly, as a return value of functions that create new processes, like `spawn`.

>   - PIDs should not be created directly by the programmer, but it is still possible. You can use Erlang's [`list_to_pid/1`][erlang-list-to-pid] function.
>     ```elixir
>     :erlang.list_to_pid('<0.10.0>')
>     # => #PID<0.10.0>
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
  - PIDs should not be created directly by the programmer. If it were required, Erlang has a [`list_to_pid/1`][erlang-list-to-pid] function.
    ```elixir
    :erlang.list_to_pid('<0.10.0>')
    # => #PID<0.10.0>
    ```
````
We don't have an exercise discussing interacting with erlang functions/modules just yet.  I don't think it's wrong to mention this here, but I think just for our own awareness.
